Hi there, my name is Holt Skinner and
I'm a developer advocate for Google
Cloud AI. AI agents are incredibly
powerful and there's an enormous amount
of tools to make them. You can build out
a cool demo in just minutes, but moving
that agent into production is a lot more
challenging. Scaling to millions of
users while maintaining low latency,
security, and consistent performance is
where many projects can struggle. Today,
we're looking at Gemini Enterprise for
customer experience or GECX. It's a
unified platform designed specifically
to bridge that gap between prototype and
enterprisegrade development. If you've
worked with Google Cloud's
conversational tools before, like
dialogue flow, contact center AI, or
customer engagement suite, GECX is the
next generation of these tools. It takes
the proven concepts and rebuilds them
for a generative AI first workflow.
Google has multiple products called
Gemini Enterprise. To clarify the
distinction, Gemini Enterprise is an
agentic platform built for internal
employee use, allowing you to deploy
agents that work across your company's
private data and internal workflows.
In contrast, Gemini Enterprise for
customer experience, GECX, is
specifically designed for external
facing agents, unifying search,
commerce, and service into a seamless
journey for your customers. Most of the
existing frameworks that developers can
use to build these types of experiences
provide a ton of control and
flexibility, but that can come at a
cost. There's a lot of hidden work in
building agents, prompt engineering,
preventing prompt injection, building
evaluation pipelines, and managing
infrastructure. GECX abstracts that
complexity, providing a managed
environment with enterprisegrade
security and scalability baked in.
Gemini Enterprise CX consists of a few
main components. Pre-built commerce
agents, which are turnkey solutions for
common flows like retail or food
ordering. CX Agent Studio, which is the
core development environment where you
build and refine your agents. Agent
Assist, which are tools that provide
real-time AI guidance for human support
reps. And Vertex AI search, a managed
service for building high-quality rag
capable search engines. You can check
the description for videos focused on
pre-built agents and Vert.A.A.I. Search.
So, let's focus on CX Agent Studio. This
isn't just a noode agent building UI.
It's a platform built on top of agent
development kit, Google's open-source AI
agent framework, which means that you
get the benefits of abstraction and
pre-built boilerplate without being
locked into a black box. The CX Agent
Studio console handles the full
developer life cycle. You have design
and development, so you can use Gemini
directly in the console to help
architect your flows. Multi-user
collaboration, think of Google Docs but
for agent logic. Evaluation monitoring,
which are built-in tools to test
performance before you go to production,
and deployment. Your agent ends up
running on Google manage infrastructure,
so you don't have to worry about scaling
the underlying compute. For integration,
you have options. There's a library of
pre-built connectors, plus full support
for model context protocol, MCP. You can
set up Python callbacks and specific
tool runtimes for processes that require
strict code-defined logic. GECX supports
birectional streaming voice via Gemini
native audio models. Your agent can
actually listen and speak with low
latency multimodal inputs and it can
take in images. And if you prefer your
IDE over a browser, there's a hosted MCP
server. You can connect it to your local
environment and use tools like
anti-gravity, Gemini CLI, or cloud code
to build and manage your agents entirely
through code. You can also use the
Google Cloud client libraries to create
and manage agents. We'll dive into the
CX Agent Studio console using a sample
agent. This specific agent follows the
reference architecture demoed at the
Google Cloud Next 2025 keynote by
product manager Patrick Marlo. You can
watch the user experience of this agent
at goo.gold/gecx-demo.
Google Cloud users can access the CX
Agent Studio Console at
ces.cloud.google.com.
And you can read all the documentation
at the links in the description. This is
the CX Agent Studio Console. It was
designed to be robust yet streamlined
and easy to use. Once you select a
project, you can click on try out a
sample agent. On the build screen,
you'll see our architecture. Instead of
one massive prompt, we use a multi- aent
approach for better separation of
concerns. We have a tople retail agent,
an upsell agent, and an out of scope
handler. Each has its own instructions
specific model configurations and tool
sets.
Let's look at the symbol retail agent
instructions. We use programmatic
instruction following or PIF which
utilizes XML tags to structure the
prompt. This makes it easier for the LLM
to parse logic and tool references. If
you have a raw prompt, the magic wand
button will automatically refactor it
into this recommended PIF format.
Click on the toolbox icon to see the
agents capabilities. For example, the
greeting tool isn't just text. It's a
sequence. It calls a CRM service to pull
the customer's cart and name from the
context. By nesting tools like this, we
ensure that the agents behavior remains
deterministic and consistent rather than
relying purely on generative randomness.
In the preview agent panel, you can test
via text, image, or audio. But for
developers, the real value is the
diagnostic info. You can step through
every execution step, inspect variable
values, and see the exact latency for
tool calls. If a tool like the CRM
service returns specific payload, you'll
see the raw JSON output right here.
If we inspect the CRM tools
configuration, you'll see that it's
built on an open API schema. Each
endpoint functions as a distinct tool.
This particular example points to a live
server on Google Cloud Run,
demonstrating how you can connect your
agent to existing production servers.
We also have a get product
recommendations tool. This is a
multi-step chain workflow. It uses the
built-in Google search tool to query the
USDA plant database, then passes that
data to the CRM for a personalized
recommendation.
This allows the agent to identify a
plant from an image like this patunia,
and provides specific soil and
fertilizer advice in one turn.
Okay, we've tested some happy paths for
this agent, but let's see how this agent
can handle irrelevant or malicious
input. I'll try asking about something
completely unrelated to gardening to see
what it does. And here we go. This hit
the out of scope handling agent, which
for this demo is designed to give more
information about what this specific
sample agent can do. But what about
malicious or prompt injection inputs?
Let's try it out. Okay, it seems like
the agent handled it pretty well, but
how does it do that? For production
grade security, click on the shield icon
to access guard rails. Within
guardrails, we have the prompt guard,
which provides built-in protection
against injection attacks. You can
configure it to trigger a specific
refusal, transfer to a human agent, or
generate a safe response. There's also
block lists. You can define specific
keywords or regax patterns to filter
both user inputs and agent outputs.
There's safety filters which handle
responsible AI requirements like
filtering hate speech or harassment. And
there's custom rules. You can write your
own logic that runs alongside every
prompt. This particular agent includes a
French fries policy to detect if the
model begins behaving erratically or
veering off task. All of these
guardrails run in the background so you
don't have to set it up on every single
sub agent or prompt that you write. You
can access global settings by clicking
on the gear icon. These global settings
apply to the entire system. Here you can
manage the default model language and
texttospech voice. For telefan use
cases, you can enable bargein which
allows users to interrupt the agent,
DTMF, which is keypad input support and
sensitive data redaction. The evaluation
tab is where you evaluate performance.
You can use two different types of test
cases. You have golden cases, which are
hard-coded ground truth scenarios to
ensure the agent follows a specific path
every time. This is similar to a
regression test. And there's dynamic
scenarios which are LLM generated tests
that run through a variety of scenarios
to find new ways to test the agent.
These can also be converted into golden
cases. Each evaluation checks for task
completion, user goal net, and
hallucinations. If a test fails, the
system provides an LLM generated
description explaining exactly why it
didn't meet expectations.
For post- deployment monitoring,
conversational insights provides full
logs and AI quality scores for every
agent interaction. You can access this
by going to the preview agent window.
Click on conversation history and go to
insights. You can learn more about CX
agent insights at the documentation
linked in the description.
When you're ready to go live, the
deployments page handles distribution
channels. This includes a web widget
which is a pre-built embeddible chat
interface. Telefony which includes
direct connections for Twilio, Google
Telefony or Google's contact center as a
service platform. And there's an API
connection which allows you to call the
agent via REST or client libraries to
build your own custom front end.
Okay, that's a highle look at CX agent
studio. It's built to give you the speed
and support of a low code tool with the
control of a full development
environment. Check the documentation for
the quick start guides to start building
your own.